Title: FAQ
Author: Thomas Graf
Date: 2019-03-10
Status: published

## Technical issues

### Do I need an account to comment?

Yes.
Since we use GitHub issues as a general commenting system, you need a [GitHub account](https://github/com/join) to comment.
It's free, and GitHub has a good track record of respecting its users' privacy.

### I wanted to post a comment, but I got some scary message about giving access rights to Utterances.

Utterances is a GitHub app that loads the comments so that they can be displayed directly under the post.
It has a good reputation, but if you don't want to give it access rights there's an alternative:
If at least one comment has already been made, you can click on the comments counter to go directly to the GitHub thread for this post.
You can post there without using Utterances.


### I have an account, but I don't see any comments under the articles!

Loading the comments uses Javascript, so make sure it is activated in your browser.

Advanced users: If you use [uMatrix](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/umatrix/) or a comparable browser add-on, set up your permissions as follows:

| Domain            | cookie | css   | media | script | XHR   | frame | other |
| -:                | :-:    | :-:   | :-:   | :-:    | :-:   | :-:   | :-:   |
| `outde.xyz`       |        | allow |       | allow  |       |       |       |
| `github.com`      | allow  |       |       |        |       |       |       |
| `api.github.com`  |        |       |       |        | allow |       |       |
| `utteranc.es`     | allow  | allow |       | allow  |       | allow |       |
| `api.utteranc.es` | allow  |       |       |        | allow |       |       |


### No LaTeX math is rendered in the comments!

Yes, this is a known limitation of GitHub.
Math in articles is rendered properly via MathJAX, but GitHub does not allow that for content on their platform, including all comments on articles.

The only known work-around at this point is to install a browser extension for [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mathjax-plugin-for-github/) or [Firefox](https://github.com/traversaro/github-mathjax-firefox).


### I installed the plugin, but the LaTeX math ignores all linebreaks.

Short answer: use `\\\\` instead of `\\`.

Long answer: GitHub treats all content in comments as pure Markdown, where `\` is used to escape characters.
If you type `\\` in Markdown, this gets converted to `\` in the HTML output. 
But your browser plugin reads the HTML code for typesetting the math.
So if you want to get `\\`, you have to type two escaped backslashes, i.e. `\\\\`.


### This all sounds awfully tedious. Why are using GitHub anyways?

We looked at many alternatives, and GitHub had the fewest drawbacks.
Just read the [GitHub issue](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/umatrix/) for details.


### Aren't you concerned that GitHub is now owned by Microsoft?

No.
Microsoft has been pretty decent in the last few years when it comes to FOSS.
Azure is now their main money maker, and they realize that they need to play friendly with the community for this to last.
But even if they were to go back to their usual "embrace, extend, extinguish", it would be easy to move the blog somewhere else:

1. Use a script to export all GitHub issues to Markdown.
1. Add the comments to the backmatter of the respective article.
1. Redeploy the website on another host, with a different commenting system like [staticman](https://github.com/eduardoboucas/staticman).

It's not a dealbreaker, so vendor lock-in is negligible.


### I still think GitHub is a bad choice for a commenting system.

Fork [our repo](https://github.com/outde-xyz/website), implement a different one, and file a pull request.
We're open for alternatives, we just don't have the time to roll out something more sohpisticated for now.


### What is all the Javascript for? I thought this was a static blog.

It largely is, but some things just don't work without Javascript.
Here's a brief overview of what gets loaded:

- `cloudflare.com`: MathJAX for typesetting math in articles (does not apply to comments)
- `utteranc.es`: load comments from GitHub


### What else is loaded from remote domains?

- `outde.xyz`: provide [JSON linked data](https://json-ld.org/); can be safely blocked
- `creativecommons.org`: load the license in the footer; can be safely blocked
- `licensebuttons.net`: load the license button in the footer; can be safely blocked
- `fonts.googleapis.com`: load some fonts for the theme; can be safely blocked
- `*.gstatic.com`: also used for font loading; can be safely blocked
- `avatars*.githubusercontent.com`: load avatars in comments; can be safely blocked


### Do you use Google analytics or similar tracking scripts?

No. Zilch, nada, none.
